Welcome back.
So far all of the visualizations we've made have been based on data that's been readily available inside
of a javascript file.
However very often when you use an B-3 you'll be working with data in some other format.
You'll first need to pull in to your javascript code to help with this D-3 comes with several request
helpers that can transform data for you.
In this video will familiarize ourselves with a few of these helper methods.
Here's a link to the code we'll be looking at for the rest of this video.
Here I've got a couple of files one Jaison and one cxxviii my Jason File has some very basic data about
countries around the world including population estimates.
My CXXVI has some basic information about cities in those countries.
Inside my index HMO I'm loading D-3 in an app G-S file inside my app.
Yes I basically like to import data from both of these files.
Let's work with the Jasonville first.
D-3 comes with a method called Jaison that will make a request to adjacent file parsed the J sign and
return to us the adjacent data as valid javascript.
The first argument to D-3 by Jaison is the path to the file.
The second argument is a callback that will get invoked.
Once you've received a response from your request inside of the callback you can pass in one or two
arguments.
If you only pass one argument it will refer to the data you get back from the request.
However it's a best practice to supply two arguments in this case.
The first argument will correspond to any error in the request and the second argument will correspond
to the data.
Note that in order to make these requests I need to be working over HTP not the file system.
If you work over the file system you'll see this error in the console.
So first I'll start up a local server.
If you haven't done this before we can do this with a node module called HTP server.
If you don't already have this module installed globally from the terminal run NPM install Dasch g h
UDP server.
Once that's done you can type HTB server to start a server.
If I open my browser to local host ADT I'll now see the page.
This works since by default the server will look for a file called index dullish the amount as you can
see in this case the request is successful and we get back an object with an array of our data.
Remember will only have access to this data inside of the callback.
So anything you want D-3 to do with that data needs to be inside of the callback.
For example if we want to display all of the country names will need to be sure a logic exists inside
of the callback function.
Here I'll create an empty selection of three tags join my array to this selection and then for each
country append an H-3 with the country in next.
Let's take a look at another request method.
D-3 that's ESV like D-3 got Jaison.
This method makes a request to a file and transforms it into valid javascript.
The structure is very similar to D-3 that Jason as well.
The first argument should be a path to the CSP file and the second should be a callback in our example.
Let's make a request to RC ESV file with D-3 that see us v in the callback.
Let's pass an error in data and then Consolo of data.
Note the structure here.
The reconverted each row in the C as v file into an object where the keys are determined by the first
row of the CSP file.
Notice that by default all values in these objects come in as strings.
Unlike with Jason data there is no way for D-3 to detect whether a value should be a string or some
other data type.
When working with CSP if you want to modify the data before you use it you can pass in another callback
to D-3 that CXXVI sometimes referred to as a formatter callback.
If you pass in two callbacks the first one will be the formatter callback which will get run before
your data gets passed into the second callback.
The formatter callback iterates through all rows in the CSP and accepts three arguments.
The first is the current row converted into an object.
The second is the row index.
The third is an array of the header row.
In other words is an array of all the keys in each object.
Know that you can also use this callback to remove arrows before working with the data.
If your callback returns NULL or undefined D-3 will remove that row from the argument in the second
callback.
Let's use this pattern to format all of our data.
I'll keep the city name and ISO to value which is just the country code.
I'll also keep population but convert it to a number also or remove any cities that have a population
less than 10000.
If I cancel all of my data inside the second call in or refresh the page you can see that the row conversion
filtering has worked.
Each object only has three keys and no cities population is smaller than 10000.
There are other eques methods besides Jaison and CSP.
You can request text files DSV files HDI mail files and XOMA files.
There's also a general D-3 that requests method but we won't go into details here.
One thing that is important to talk about is how to change asynchronous requests together.
Right now we can get data on our countries and data on our cities but we don't have access to both countries
and cities inside of the same block of code.
We could request RC S V data inside of the callback to our Jason requests but if you're making requests
to lots of different files this quickly becomes a pain.
Fortunately D3 also provides us with a method to queue asynchronous requests together.
It's called D-3 docu this method creates a D-3 queue object which is used to manage asynchronous tasks.
You can add requests to a queue by calling Dom defer on it into defer or you can pass the asynchronous
function.
If the function takes arguments you can pass them in as well after passing the function itself.
Once you put all of your asynchronous function calls into the queue you can wait for all of them to
result using one of two functions.
Either a wait or a wait all the difference between these two functions is sort of similar to the difference
between call and apply a wait.
Makes the responses available to you as a comma separated list of arguments while away all gives you
an array of responses for both functions the first argument will point to any errors.
Let's use a Q to change our request together and show information on each city in each country.
I'll make both requests and then when I have my data a first time my cities to their appropriate country
by mapping over my countries and give each one a city's array of matched cities to countries based on
the country code.
This isn't the most efficient solution but it'll get the job done.
Once I have my data I'll create a country selection which joint's data to devise and then opens new
devs to the page for each element and the selection of append and H-3 with the country name as before
but now I also append to UL whose interchange DML will be determined by the cities map over the cities
and for each one I'll create a list item that displays the city name and the fraction of the country's
population that lives in that city.
Cool.
This is a lot of information about population.
If we wanted to use a wait all instead of wait it would be a pretty simple change my callback will only
have two arguments.
Now of course the second one all data all data it ends at zero corresponds to what I used to call countries
and all data in X-1 corresponds to what I used to call cities.
These methods should make managing a synchronous code with D-3 a little bit more straightforward.
You're now ready to tackle the exercise for the section when you're ready for more practice.
I'll meet you in the next video.